High-Tech Degrees and the Price of an Avocado: The Data New York Gave to Amazon

The city and state sent loads of data to Amazon during its search for a new headquarters, offering a peek into the valuable information the company collected during the process.

Karen Weise

By Karen Weise

	Dec. 12, 2018

[Updated Feb. 14: Amazon said it was canceling plans to build a corporate campus in New York City, after the deal had run into fierce opposition from local lawmakers who criticized providing subsidies to one of the world’s most valuable companies.]

An avocado at Whole Foods costs $1.25. Columbia University handed out 724 graduate degrees in computer science over the past three years. And 10 potential land parcels in Long Island City are zoned M1-4, for light manufacturing.

New York provided all of these data points, and thousands more, to Amazon as part of its successful bid to woo the tech giant to town.

On Monday, New York City posted online the 253-page proposal it submitted, along with New York State, to Amazon in March. The city quickly took the file down, saying it should have checked with its partners before posting it, because the document included proprietary information. But The New York Times downloaded the document before it was taken off the public website.

The proposal shows the types of data, some rarely available publicly, that the company amassed from cities across the country as part of its search for a second headquarters.

In the end, Amazon chose Long Island City in Queens and Arlington, Va., for two new headquarters. But more than 200 cities put in initial bids for the project, and 20 of them provided Amazon with more information when they made Amazon’s shortlist. Each submitted valuable research that the company can mine in the future for picking satellite offices, warehouse locations or research hubs.
An independent press needs your support
Discover the impact of our journalism with unlimited access to The Times

When Joseph Parilla, a fellow at the Metropolitan Policy Program at the Brookings Institution, first scrolled through New York’s submission, which The Times asked him to review, one word kept flying out his mouth: “Wow.”

Mr. Parilla, who researches economic development, was amazed at the level of detail and hard-to-find data the city had provided. “We are doing a project right now that, if we had access to Amazon’s database, it would make our life so much easier,” Mr. Parilla said.

An Amazon spokesman, Adam Sedo, said that most of the information the company received was publicly available, and that economic development offices regularly provided such data to companies looking to locate in an area.
